[docs] Refresh Developer Policy text (#136198)
llvm/llvm-project: llvm/docs/DeveloperPolicy.rst

LLDB, libc++, MLIR, etc.

The developer policy supports the following LLVM project objectives:

#. Attract both users and new contributors to the LLVM project.

#. Help people contribute to LLVM by documenting our development practices.

#. Maintain the stability, performance, and quality of the ``main`` branch.

#. Establish the project's :ref:`copyright, license, and patent
   policies <copyright-license-patents>` policies.

Developer Policies
==================

Communication Channels
----------------------

LLVM is a large project with many subcomponents, and it has a wide array of
communication channels that you can use to keep track of recent developments,
upcoming projects, new designs, enhancements, and other community business.

First and foremost is the `LLVM Discourse forums`_, which is the successor
to our former mailing lists (llvm-dev@, cfe-dev@, lldb-dev@, etc). This is
probably the most vital and active communication channel to our highly
distributed open source project. It enables long-form asyncronous text
communication, and this is where people tend to propose major changes or
propose new designs in the form of RFCs (Request For Comment), which are

> described later. Please be aware that the discourse forums are public and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
described later. Please be aware that the Discourse forums are public and
```

archived, and that notices of confidentiality or non-disclosure cannot be
respected.

> We accept code contributions as :ref:`GitHub Pull Requests <github-reviews>`.

Reviewer 2: Some thing I don't have a strong opinion on, but witnessed: some PRs or Github issue discussions grow very long and sometimes contentious, but much fewer people engage with them. Maybe we want some sort of soft guideline on when to move such a discussion to the forums for broader community involvement.

Our project is generally too large to subscribe to all github notifications, so
if you want to be notified of pull requests affecting a specific parts of the
code, you can join
one of the `pr-subscribers-* <https://github.com/orgs/llvm/teams?query=pr-subscribers>`_
GitHub teams. This `mapping <https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/blob/main/.github/new-prs-labeler.yml>`_
documents the paths that trigger notifications for each of the listed teams.

Missing features and bugs are tracked through our `GitHub issue tracker <https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/issues>`_

> and assigned labels. You can subscribe for notification for specific components

Author: Yeah, removed.

by joining
one of the `issue-subscribers-*
<https://github.com/orgs/llvm/teams?query=issue-subscribers>`_ teams. You may
also subscribe to the `llvm-bugs
<http://lists.llvm.org/mailman/listinfo/llvm-bugs>`_ email list to subscribe to
the firehose of all issue notifications, which some community members use to
perform custom filtering.

> Beyond the main formal communication channels, LLVM has a Discord server for

Author: I said "asynchronous written", since I think that's the differentiator.

real-time chat communication, as well as a community calendar with many regular
workgroup video calls and office hours. See :doc:`GettingInvolved` for more
information on other ways to engage with the community.

.. _patch:

Making and Submitting a Patch
-----------------------------

> Submitting patches for review is straightforward with GitHub. Follow the

Reviewer: > Submitting patches for review is straightforward with GitHub.

I'd probably reword this to "Patches are submitted through GitHub" rather than claim it's straightforward for everyone (not everyone is familiar with GitHub or comfortable with git in general).

:ref:`Getting Started Guide <sources>` to check out sources, make a patch, and
then follow the :ref:`GitHub Pull Request <github-reviews>` guide to upload a
pull request.

Here are some tips to enable a successful code review:

* :ref:`Include a test <include a testcase>`. This tends to be one of the first
  things a reviewer will ask for and look at to understand what a new patch
  does.

> * Identify 2-3 individuals to review the patch. Look through the relevant

Reviewer 2: Do random GIthub users have permissions to add PR reviewers? If not, we should document the recommended way of attracting attention, e.g., by @-pinging the relevant people in a comment and explicitly stating you don't have permission to add reviewers (for one-off PRs) and/or asking for "triage" set of permissions.

Reviewer: > Do random GIthub users have permissions to add PR reviewers?

In my experience, they do not have the ability to do this themselves unless they're a member of the organization. Though I wonder if that can be relaxed?

  :ref:`Maintainers` file or browse git blame for likely stakeholders for the
  code want to modify.

> * Make sure your patch is based on a recent commit from ``main``, rather than a
>   previous release branch. If you want to make changes to a release branch, land

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To avoid precommit CI failures due to merge conflicts, base your patches on a recent commit from ``main``. If you want to make changes to a release branch, land
```
Maybe? It explains why this is needed.

>   a change in ``main`` first and ask a release manager to backport it.

Reviewer 2: Should we encourage developers to backport their patches themselves, when possible?

Author: Yes, done, sorry I missed that.

All contributors with commit access to the LLVM Project are eligible to be a
maintainer. However, we are looking for people who can commit to:

* engaging in their responsibilities the majority of the days in a month,
* ensuring that they, and the community members they interact with, abide by the

>   LLVM Community Code of Conduct, and

Author: Done.

Developers are required to create test cases for any bugs fixed and any new
features added.  Some tips for getting your testcase approved:

* All feature and regression test cases are added to the ``test`` subdirectory
  of each LLVM subproject, i.e. ``llvm-project/llvm/test`` for LLVM itself. The
  appropriate sub-directory should be selected (see the
  :doc:`Testing Guide <TestingGuide>` for details).

* Changes to libraries, such as Support, which are not directly observable
  through tool invocations, are often best tested with unit tests. Unit tests
  are located under the ``unittests`` subdirectory of each subproject.

> * Test cases are written in the relevant input language of the relevant

Reviewer 2: Maybe we want to highlight more prominently that, whenever possible, tests should be written against a tool such as `opt`rather than as unit tests and use command-line tools such as `FileCheck` to verify the output for testing efficiency reasons.

  component. For LLVM, this is typically the :doc:`LLVM assembly language
  <LangRef>`. For Clang, it is often C/C++/ObjC.

* Test cases should be targeted. Large inputs exhibiting bugs should be reduced
  with tools like ``llvm-reduce`` before committing them to the suite. It is not
  acceptable to place an entire failing program into ``llvm/test`` as this
  creates a *time-to-test* burden on all developers. Please keep them short.

* Avoid adding links to resources that are not available to the entire
  community, such as links to private bug trackers, internal corporate
  documentation, etc. Instead, add sufficient comments to the test to provide
  the context behind such links.

Note that ``llvm/test`` and ``clang/test`` are designed for regression and small
feature tests only. More extensive test cases (e.g., entire applications,
benchmarks, etc) should be added to the ``llvm-test`` test suite.  The ``llvm-test``
suite is for integration and application testing (correctness, performance, etc)

> testing, not feature or regression testing.

Reviewer: Do we also want to mention that it's the place to put tests which are incompatible with the license from the main LLVM repo?

Developers are required to create test cases for any bugs fixed and any new
features added.  Some tips for getting your testcase approved:

* All feature and regression test cases are added to the ``test`` subdirectory
  of each LLVM subproject, i.e. ``llvm-project/llvm/test`` for LLVM itself. The
  appropriate sub-directory should be selected (see the
  :doc:`Testing Guide <TestingGuide>` for details).

> * We prefer that functional changes are tested using ``FileCheck`` and the tool

Author: Done.

and so on. These guidelines are very similar to rules used by other open source
projects.

> Commit messages should communicate briefly what the change does, and provide

Reviewer 2: IMO, the "why" part is the most important in the commit message. We can understand the "what" from the commit itself, although it is useful to summarize the "what" in the message for the reviewer to check whether the code actually does what the author intended.

background, possibly with context, for why the change is being made. Commit
messages should be thoughtfully written and specific, rather than vague. For
example, "bits were not set right" will leave the reviewer wondering about which
bits, and why they weren't right, while "Correctly set overflow bits in

> TargetInfo" conveys almost all there is to the change.

Reviewer 2: I'd also remind that the final commit, potentially squashed from multiple commits in a PR, will have the description taken from the PR description. The latter is set once when the PR is created, defaulting to the commit message if the PR only contains one commit, and does _not_ track the changes to the commit message. As a corollary, developers must manually update the PR description as they iterate on the change...

.. _discuss the change/gather consensus:

Proposing Major Changes (RFCs)
------------------------------

LLVM is a large community with many stakeholders, and before landing any major
change, it is important to discuss the design of a change publicly with the
community. This is done by posting an Request For Comments (RFC) on the `LLVM
Discourse forums`_.

The design of LLVM is carefully controlled to ensure that all the pieces fit
together well and are as consistent as possible. If you plan to make a major
change to the way LLVM works or want to add a major new extension, it is a good
idea to get consensus with the development community before you invest
significant effort in an implementation. Prototype implementations, however, can
often be helpful in making design discussions more concrete by demonstrating
what is possible.

> TODO: Elaborate on best practices for making a successful RFC.

Reviewer 2: Random ideas for this from recent experience:

 - make it targeted, don't touch components irrelevant to the task
 - explain how the change improves LLVM for all/most stakeholders rather than your specific use case
 - periodically summarize the current state of the discussion and clearly separate points where consensus seems to emerge from those where further discussion is necessary
 - by default, the burden of proof is on the proposer (though we'd like to avoid situations when somebody keeps asking for more proof as a way of exhausting the proposer)

Author: I added that list, but I'm sure we can add more here :) I think my goal with this PR was to get a better base for future edits.
